Prepare release 3.0.0 (#4963)
open-formulieren/open-forms: CHANGELOG.rst

**Bugfixes**

* [:backend:`4978`] Fixed accidental HTML escaping in summary PDF/confirmation email and marking a
  variable as a geometry one.
* Fixed help texts in Objects API prefill.
* [:backend:`4969`] Fixed Introduction page, map tile layers fixture and form tab UX.
* [:backend:`4579`] Ensured that the current step used in logic is the correct one.
* [:backend:`4900`] Fixed submission value variables recoupling for reusable form definitions.
* [:backend:`4795`] Fixed MSG and ZIP ("application/octet-stream") files not passing validation.
* [:backend:`4825`] Log prefill failures for empty data only for the authentication flow that
  is used to log in.
* [:backend:`4863`] Fixed authentication flow when OIDC is used through an `employee_id`.
* [:backend:`4955`] Fixed coordinates order for Objects API and ZGW APIs.
* [:backend:`4821`] Ensured that email digest reports the expected problems for BRK and addressNL
  component.
* [:backend:`4949`] Fixed Modal's close button on dark mode.
* [:backend:`4886`] Fixed certain variants of CSV files not passing validation on Windows.
* [:backend:`4832`] Fixed json schema matcher in Objects API, in case format is not provided.

> * [:backend:`4853`, :backend:`4899`] Fixed optional serializer fields in multiple registration
>   backends.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [:backend:`4853`, :backend:`4899`] Fixed empty optional configuration fields not 
   passing validation in multiple registration backends.
```

* [:backend:`4528`] Fixed vague error/log out situation when logging in with OIDC.
* [:backend:`3629`] Fixed submission bulk export crashing when the form has repeating
  groups.
* [:backend:`3705`] Updated timestamps in str representations.
* [:backend:`4713`] Fixed pre-request hook not running for all "Haal Centraal BRP
  Personen bevragen" operations (fixes Token Exchange extension).
* [:backend:`4600`] Fixed not all the content on the page getting translated after changing
  the form language.
* [:backend:`4733`] Fixed a segmentation fault that could occur in dev environments.
* [:backend:`4628`] Fixed a crash when copying a form with a "block next step" logic.
* [:backend:`4711`] Fixed broken submission form row styling.
* [:backend:`4695`] Fixed a performance issue during legacy Objects API registration
  plugin validation.
* [:backend:`4652`] Fixed misaligned validation errors in the form designer UI.
* [:backend:`4658`] Fixed certain variants of ZIP files not passing validation on Windows.
* [:backend:`4656`] Fixed a crash during validation when you have file upload components
  inside repeating groups.

**Project maintenance**

> * Fixed stories concerning bootstrap.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Improved the Storybook setup to be closer to the actual Django admin usage.
```

> * Removed automatic patching for `cosign_information` template tag.

Reviewer: I think this can go to the breaking changes section.

  (see **Installation** > **Upgrade details to Open Forms 3.0.0**) for all the necessary details.

> * Updated browserslist package.

Reviewer: Leave this one out, it just affects which CSS prefixed and modern-to-old-JS conversions are required.

> * Removed legacy component translations serializer fields.

Reviewer: This one is part of #3283, so can be left out.

* [:backend:`4920`] Cleaned up and squashed migrations where this was possible.
* De-duplicated Open Forms version upgrade path checks.
* Bumped Jinja2 to 3.1.5.

> * [:backend:`4785`] Upgraded django-digid-eherkenning to 0.18.0 and updated documentation.

Reviewer: You can move this to features and rephrase it as:

```suggestion
* [:backend:`4785`] Updated the eHerkenning metadata generation to match the latest standard version(s).
```

* [:backend:`3283`] Removed deprecated code (please review the instructions in the documentation
  under **Installation** > **Upgrade details to Open Forms 3.0.0** for all the necessary details):

    - ``registration_backend`` and ``registration_backend_options`` fields from form.
    - Old API location url.
    - Conversion of ``stuf-zds-create-zaak:ext-utrecht`` to ``stuf-zds-create-zaak`` during import.
    - Objecttype URL to UUID import conversion.
    - Backwards compatible styling.
    - Password Formio component.
    - Legacy formio translation converter.
    - Deprecated/disabled legacy OIDC callback endpoints by default.
    - Documented registration backend migration procedure.
    - Made Objects API and ZGW APIs group fields non-nullable where this is necessary.
    - Normalized API endpoints to use kebab-case instead of snake-case.
    - Removed unnecessary filter behaviour on form definitions endpoint.
    - Removed legacy machtigen context.
    - Removed old appointments flow and refactored code according to the new one.
    - Made submission in temporary file uploads non-nullable.
    - Removed conversion of form step URL to form step UUID.

>     - Made form definition name read only.

Reviewer: Belongs in "breaking changes"

* Documented expired domains for VCR testing.

> * [:backend:`4920`] Updated backend and frontend translations.

Reviewer: can be left out

> * Improved test flakiness.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Reduced flakiness in test suite.
```

* [:backend:`3457`] Extended type checking to most of the payments app.
* Removed migration tests which relied on real models.
* Addressed warnings in DMN components.
* Removed duplicated MS Graph stories/plugin options.

> * Removed unused uiSchema property from registration fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Removed unused ``uiSchema`` property from registration fields.
```

* Deleted obsoleted `.admin-fieldset` styling.
* Removed the custom helptext-as-tooltip styling and applied the default styling of Django.
* Replaced ``summary`` tag implementation with ``confirmation_summary``.

> * Bumped Django to 4.2.17 patch release.

Reviewer: Might be good to do list item "* Updated backend dependencies" and then list the individual entries within that item, and do a similar thing for the frontend dependencies (if relevant)

* Refactored/updated variables editor stories.
* [:backend:`4398`] Refactored the ``TargetPathSelect`` component.
* Bumped tornado version.

> * [:backend:`4771`] Deprecated price logic rules (see breaking changes section for further instructions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [:backend:`4771`] Removed price logic rules (see breaking changes section for further instructions).
```
and can go in the breaking changes section too

  under **Installation** > **Upgrade details to Open Forms 3.0.0** for all the necessary details):

    - ``registration_backend`` and ``registration_backend_options`` fields from form.
    - Old API location url.
    - Conversion of ``stuf-zds-create-zaak:ext-utrecht`` to ``stuf-zds-create-zaak`` during import.
    - Objecttype URL to UUID import conversion.
    - Backwards compatible styling.
    - Password Formio component.
    - Legacy formio translation converter.
    - Deprecated/disabled legacy OIDC callback endpoints by default.
    - Documented registration backend migration procedure.
    - Made Objects API and ZGW APIs group fields non-nullable where this is necessary.
    - Normalized API endpoints to use kebab-case instead of snake-case.
    - Removed unnecessary filter behaviour on form definitions endpoint.
    - Removed legacy machtigen context.
    - Removed old appointments flow and refactored code according to the new one.
    - Made submission in temporary file uploads non-nullable.
    - Removed conversion of form step URL to form step UUID.
    - Made form definition name read only.

> * [:backend:`4771`] Deprecated price logic rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [:backend:`4771`] Removed price logic rules in favour of normal logic rules.
```

You can now specify a maximum number of submissions for a given form, useful for limited availability/capacity
situations, such as raffles or sign-ups to events. Related to that, we expanded the statistics to allow exporting
the successfully registered submissions.

**🤖 Automatic technical configuration**

We're shipping some tooling for infrastructure teams that deploy Open Forms - this makes it possible to
provision some configuration aspects that previously had to be done in the admin interface via point-and-click.

We're still expanding on the covered configuration aspects, so stay tuned for more!

**🚸 User Experience improvements**

We have made a ton of user experience improvements in registration and prefill plugin configurations! No
more copying of URLs from other systems - instead, you select the relevant option in a dropdown.
Dropdowns that support a search field to wade through those tens or hundreds of available case types!

And, wherever you need to choose a form variable, you now have the options grouped by type of variable
*and* the context of where this variable occurs, topped of with a search field.

Detailed changes
----------------

**New features**

> * [#4969] Improved the UX of the form designer:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [:backend:`4969`] Improved the UX of the form designer:
```

    - The base form configuration tab now groups related fields and collapses them to declutter the UI.
    - Moved the introduction page configuration to clarify the difference with the introduction text fields.
* Registration plugins:

    * [:backend:`4686`] All the registration plugin configuration options are now consistently managed in a 
      modal with better UX.

    * Email:

        * [:backend:`4650`] The email registration plugin now allows setting the recipient using form variables.
    * Objects API:

>         * [:backend:`4978`] Made v2 config the default one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * [:backend:`4978`] The "variables mapping" configuration is now the default - this does not affect existing forms.
```

        * Updated technical configuration documentation for Objects API.

>         * [:backend:`4398`] The object ownership is now checked, when a user is authenticated, during prefill
>           and pre-registration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * [:backend:`4398`] You can now update a referenced existing object rather than create a new record.
          When the object is being updated, the BSN of the authenticated user is verified against the existing
          object data.
```

        * [:backend:`4418`] You can now map individual parts of the addressNL component.

>         * [:backend:`4396`, :backend:`4693`, :backend:`4608`, :backend:`4859`] You can now configure a variable
>           to be prefilled from the Objects API (a.k.a. "product prefill"):
> 
>           - It's possible to assign individual properties from the object type to particular form variables.
>           - To avoid duplicating configuration, you can copy the configuration from a configured registration
>             backend. The button is shown only when there are available backends configured.
>           - Cleaned up API of VariablesMapping component.
>           - Refactored VariablesMapping component.
>           - Refactored ObjectTypeVersionSelect.

Reviewer: Belongs in the prefill group, not registration :)

```suggestion
        * [:backend:`4396`, :backend:`4693`, :backend:`4608`, :backend:`4859`] You can now configure a variable
          to be prefilled from the Objects API (a.k.a. "product prefill"):

          - It's possible to assign individual properties from the object type to particular form variables.
          - To avoid duplicating configuration, you can copy the configuration from a configured registration
            backend.
```

    * ZGW APIs:

        * [:backend:`4606`] Improved the user experience of the plugin:

          - All dropdowns/comboboxes now have a search field.
          - You can now select which catalogue to use, which enables you to select the case and
            document types in dropdowns that show only relevant options.
          - During registration the plugin will now automatically select the right version of a case and
            document type.
          - The URL-based configuration can still be used, but it's deprecated and will be removed in the
            future.
        * [:backend:`4796`] You can now select a product to be set on the created case from the selected case
          type in the ZGW APIs registration plugin.
        * [:backend:`4344`] You can now select which Objects API group to use rather than "the first one"
          being used always.
    * StUF-ZDS:

>         * [:backend:`4319`] You can now provide a custom document's title for StUF-ZDS via the component's
>           configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * [:backend:`4319`] You can now provide a custom document title for StUF-ZDS via the component
          configuration.
```

        * [:backend:`4762`] The cosigner identifier (BSN) is now included in the created case.
* Prefill plugins:

>     * Added documentation for product prefill in user manual (examples are also provided).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Added documentation for product prefill in user manual.
```

    * Objects API:

>         *

Reviewer: Move the entries that are now in registration plugins here :)

* Payment plugins:

    * Ogone:

>         * [:backend:`3457`] Custom `title` and `com` parameters can now be defined in Ogone payment plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * [:backend:`3457`] Custom ``title`` and ``com`` parameters can now be defined in Ogone payment plugin.
```

* [:backend:`4785`] Updated the eHerkenning metadata generation to match the latest standard version(s).
* [:backend:`4930`] It's now possible to export registered submission metadata via the form statistics
  admin page. This can be based on specific date range.
* The documentation of Open Forms is now available for offline access too. You can find a PDF link
  on the bottom of the page.

> * [:backend:`2173`] The map component now supports using a different background/tile layer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [:backend:`2173`] The map component now supports using a different background/tile layer.
```

* [:backend:`4321`] Forms can now have a submission limit. The SDK displays appropriate messages when
  this limit is reached.

> * [:backend:`4907`] Improved developer installation documentation.

Reviewer: Move this to "Project maintenance"

> * [:backend:`4895`] Ensured that custom email headers are used for confirmation emails and cosign
>   request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [:backend:`4895`] Added metadata to the outgoing confirmation and cosign request emails.
```

> * [:backend:`4859`] Improved form state handling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
part of the larger objects api prefill feature, can be left out

> * [:backend:`4789`, :backend:`4788`] Added `django-setup-configuration` to configure Open Forms to
>   Open Zaak and Objecten.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [:backend:`4789`, :backend:`4788`] Added `django-setup-configuration` to programmatically configure Open Forms' 
  connection details to the Objects and ZGW APIs.
```

* [:backend:`4787`] It's now possible to load a confguration file via the ``setup_configuration``
  management command. Additional information/instructions are provided in

>   :ref:`installation_configuration_cli`.

Reviewer: I would merge this with the entry above

> * Updated documentation concerning frontend toolchains and formio search strategies.

Reviewer: Move to "Project maintenance"

* [:backend:`4798`] Made the confirmation box consistent with other modals and improved the UX.
* [:backend:`4320`] Improved the cosign flow and the texts used in cosign flows, while adding more
  flexibility:

    - You can now use templates specifically for cosigning for the confirmation screen content,
      with the ability to include a 'cosign now' button.
    - You can now use templates specifically for cosigning for the confirmation email subject and content.
    - When links are used in the cosign request email, the cosigner can now directly click through without
      having to enter a code to retrieve the submission.
    - Updated the default templates with better text/instructions.
    - Updated translations of improved texts.

> * [:backend:`4815`] Changed submission removal limit to 0, allowing submissions to be deleted after 0 days
>   (i.e. on the same day).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [:backend:`4815`] The minimum submission removal limit is now 0 days, allowing submissions to be deleted on the
   same day they were created.
```

Author: This was copied over from the alpha version. Should I change it?

https://github.com/open-formulieren/open-forms/blob/master/CHANGELOG.rst?plain=1#L47

Reviewer: Yeah :)
